sources/software/others/index.md, before:

@{
  Layout = "page";
  Title = "Other software";
  Tags = "";
  Date = "";
  Description = "My other software";
}
<div class="markdowntitle">
# Other softwares
</div>

![](download.png) Other softwares
================================================

<link href="../../common/downloadtable.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen" />

Domenico
--------

This is a small game where you must match icons. There are multiple difficulty levels. It's even more addictive than Windows Minesweeper. Bill Gates has once contacted me and proposed me to release it with 
~~Windows 98~~ Windows Vista. Unfortunately for him, he was not rich enough to afford the price of my labour so I had to turn down the offer.

| Filename                     | Date           | Size  | Description                                                                                            |
|------------------------------|----------------|-------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [domeni10.zip](domeni10.zip) | 11th June 1998 | 728kb | **Domenico 1.0 for Windows 3.1/95/98/NT/XP/Vista/7/8/8.1/10** Includes English, French, 16 and 32 bits version. [Requires Visual Basic 4.0 Runtimes](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;EN-US;q196286)  |

CasseB
------

This is a block breaker game written in C. I have developped this game at a time where I was learning game programming in DOS. My aunt really likes it, I am sure you'll love it too.

![CasseB screenshot](casseb.png)

| Filename                 | Date            | Size  | Description                                      |
|--------------------------|-----------------|-------|--------------------------------------------------|
| [casseb.zip](casseb.zip) | 9th August 1998 | 129kb | **CasseB** Small game for MS/DOS (still run on Windows XP).  |

Stock-It
--------

Stock-It is a stock-management software that I developed long-time ago for a french high-school in Besan?on (France). It was used by students and teachers to manage stocks of plumbing. Stock-It has powerful features that allows the teacher to control the work done by his students.

| Filename                     | Date            | Size   | Description                                                                                           |
|------------------------------|-----------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [stkit20.zip](stkit20.zip)   | 21th June 1999  | 496kb  | **Stock-It 2.0** [Requires Visual Basic 6.0 Runtimes](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;290887)  |
| [stkit10c.zip](stkit10c.zip) | 5th August 1998 | 749 kb | **Stock-It 1.0c** (French). This is the first version of Stockit. The application is a 16 bits binary for Windows 3.1,95 or NT.    |

SIP 2.0 (Small Installation Packager)
-------------------------------------

This is a Perl Script which can be used to create tiny installation package for your own software. To run this script, you need a Perl interpreter on your computer such as [ActivePerl (freeware)](http://www.ActiveState.com/ActivePerl/)

| Filename               | Date           | Size | Description |
|------------------------|----------------|------|-------------|
| [sip20.zip](sip20.zip) | 21th June 1999 | 10kb | **SIP 2.0**     |

RLGui 1.0 (Resource Localization GUI)
-------------------------------------

RLGui is a token file editor. It is used to edit token files created with the Micrsoft Resources Localization Tools. It was originally developped as a tool to help translating Cracklock.

| Filename                   | Date          | Size   | Description                                                                                           |
|----------------------------|---------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [rlgui10.zip](rlgui10.zip) | 14th May 2001 | 406 kb | **RLGUI 1.0** [Requires Visual Basic 6.0 Runtimes](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;290887)  |

NetNotifier
-----------

When you are wired to the Internet via a shared phone connection, you don't know when the connexion is opened or closed. This tool tells you when the connection is available by playing a sound and showing you an icon in the tray notification bar.
[Read the short manual](NetNotifier.html).

| Filename                 | Date          | Size  | Description                                                                                           |
|--------------------------|---------------|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [netn20.zip](netn20.zip) | 5th July 2000 | 37 kb | **NetNotifier** [Requires Visual Basic 6.0 Runtimes](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;290887)   |

Commit message:

New page for Domenico
Add new package included VB runtime

sources/software/others/index.md, after:

@{
  Layout = "page";
  Title = "Other software";
  Tags = "";
  Date = "";
  Description = "My other software";
}
<div class="markdowntitle">
# Other softwares
</div>

![](download.png) Other softwares
================================================

<link href="../../common/downloadtable.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="screen" />

Here is some software I developed many years ago and which I don't have time
to maintain anymore.

Domenico
--------

[See Domenico's page](../domenico/index.html)

CasseB
------

This is a block breaker game written in C. I have developped this game at a time where I was learning game programming in DOS. My aunt really likes it, I am sure you'll love it too.

![CasseB screenshot](casseb.png)

| Filename                 | Date            | Size  | Description                                      |
|--------------------------|-----------------|-------|--------------------------------------------------|
| [casseb.zip](casseb.zip) | 9th August 1998 | 129kb | **CasseB** Small game for MS/DOS (still run on Windows XP).  |

Stock-It
--------

Stock-It is a stock-management software that I developed long-time ago for a french high-school in Besan?on (France). It was used by students and teachers to manage stocks of plumbing. Stock-It has powerful features that allows the teacher to control the work done by his students.

| Filename                     | Date            | Size   | Description                                                                                           |
|------------------------------|-----------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [stkit20.zip](stkit20.zip)   | 21th June 1999  | 496kb  | **Stock-It 2.0** [Requires Visual Basic 6.0 Runtimes](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;290887)  |
| [stkit10c.zip](stkit10c.zip) | 5th August 1998 | 749 kb | **Stock-It 1.0c** (French). This is the first version of Stockit. The application is a 16 bits binary for Windows 3.1,95 or NT.    |

SIP 2.0 (Small Installation Packager)
-------------------------------------

This is a Perl Script which can be used to create tiny installation package for your own software. To run this script, you need a Perl interpreter on your computer such as [ActivePerl (freeware)](http://www.ActiveState.com/ActivePerl/)

| Filename               | Date           | Size | Description |
|------------------------|----------------|------|-------------|
| [sip20.zip](sip20.zip) | 21th June 1999 | 10kb | **SIP 2.0**     |

RLGui 1.0 (Resource Localization GUI)
-------------------------------------

RLGui is a token file editor. It is used to edit token files created with the Micrsoft Resources Localization Tools. It was originally developped as a tool to help translating Cracklock.

| Filename                   | Date          | Size   | Description                                                                                           |
|----------------------------|---------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [rlgui10.zip](rlgui10.zip) | 14th May 2001 | 406 kb | **RLGUI 1.0** [Requires Visual Basic 6.0 Runtimes](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;290887)  |

NetNotifier
-----------

When you are wired to the Internet via a shared phone connection, you don't know when the connexion is opened or closed. This tool tells you when the connection is available by playing a sound and showing you an icon in the tray notification bar.
[Read the short manual](NetNotifier.html).

| Filename                 | Date          | Size  | Description                                                                                           |
|--------------------------|---------------|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [netn20.zip](netn20.zip) | 5th July 2000 | 37 kb | **NetNotifier** [Requires Visual Basic 6.0 Runtimes](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;290887)   |
