<script type="text/javascript">
var metadata = { 
    blogVersion : 1,
    entryId : 'entry101116-033103',
    postDate : '2011-01-23T10:32:26Z',
    legacyViews : 40 // as of Oct 30th 2015
};
</script>

# Plotting thesis word count 

**Monday, 15 November 2010, 18:31**

_Posted by William Blum_

I have been playing around with PowerShell lately. Here is the little exercise that I set myself: measure and plot the evolution of the number of words in a TeX document.

The script takes a list of folders as parameters. For every TeX file found it calls [texcount.pl](http://folk.uio.no/einarro/Comp/texwordcount.html) to counts the number of words in the document. The total number of words is then saved to a CSV file and two graphs are plotted: one using
 [GNU plot](http://www.gnuplot.info/) and the other one using the Google Visualization API.

I did not have this script at the time of my studies, but since I have been using Subversion to backup and manage revisions of my writings throughout my studies I was able to retrieve past revisions of my work and generate a few word count measurements. The graph below, generated using the PowerShell script, shows the evolution of word count in my D.Phil thesis.

<script type='text/javascript' src='https://www.google.com/jsapi'></script>
<script type='text/javascript' src='../twc/chart.js' ></script>
<script type='text/javascript'>
    google.load('visualization', '1', {'packages':['annotatedtimeline']});
    google.setOnLoadCallback(drawChart);
    function drawChart() {
        var data = new google.visualization.DataTable();
        fillChartData(data);
        var chart = new google.visualization.AnnotatedTimeLine(document.getElementById('chart_div'));
        chart.draw(data, {displayAnnotations: true, scaleType: 'maximized'});
    }
</script>
<div id='chart_div' style='width: 600px; height: 400px;'></div>
<br/>

The graph reveals few facts to the reader. For instance that I was not very productive during the first year... But it also shows that I started writing up early on (thanks to my supervisor's advice). Some doctoral students prefer to postpone writing up till the last few months. I am glad I did not adopt this strategy; it made the whole writing process very smooth and eliminate a lot of stress towards the end.

The graph also shows two particularly productive periods corresponding to two important milestones in the D.Phil process at Oxford: the transfer and the confirmation. The thesis reached a plateau on October 5th 2008, the date when I submitted the thesis to the examiners. There were subsequent minor modifications requested by the examiners after the viva, as well as some cosmetic changes for the camera-ready version sent to the Bodleian.

Here is the script in case you are interested: [twc.ps1](../twc/twc.ps1). I suggest you to use it to monitor your progress on your writings by setting it as a daily job under the Windows Task Scheduler.

The usage syntax is

    ./twc.ps1 [-tag name] [-date date] [-output outputdir] inputdirs

For example the command

    ./twc.ps1 -tag first_version -date '16 Nov 2010' -output c:\report c:\thesis

creates a datapoint named 'first_version' at the specified date whose value is the total number of words in TeX documents under directory c:\thesis; the CSV file and graphs are stored under c:\report.

For more examples just run the command without argument.